
APILayer | Hassle Free API Marketplace Repo Repo

    Repo Repo

Mary Riley

    API Marketplace
    Dev Tools
    Whois API

Whois API
Whois API
API to perform a Whois query programmatically and get results in JSON format.
APILayer
APILayer
Review rating
Review rating
Review rating
Review rating
Review rating
Your plan: Free Plan
API Key:
XnnV0ZeQgdqv0d5oyabS6YtCPcra6co6

    Subscription
    API info
    Documentation
    Reviews

Whois API Reference

This API is organized around REST. Our API has predictable resource-oriented URLs, accepts form-encoded request bodies, returns JSON-encoded responses, and uses standard HTTP response codes, authentication, and verbs.

    Just Getting Started?

    Check out our development quickstart guide.

Authentication

Whois API uses API keys to authenticate requests. You can view and manage your API keys in the Accounts page.

Your API keys carry many privileges, so be sure to keep them secure! Do not share your secret API keys in publicly accessible areas such as GitHub, client-side code, and so forth.

All requests made to the API must hold a custom HTTP header named "apikey". Implementation differs with each programming language. Below are some samples.

All API requests must be made over HTTPS. Calls made over plain HTTP will fail. API requests without authentication will also fail.
Endpoints

Check if a domain name is available for purchase or not
Parameters

domain (required)

Domain to check

Location: Query, Data Type: string
** A word enclosed with curly brackets "{ }" in the code means that it is a parameter and it should be replaced with your own values when executing. (also overwriting the curly brackets).
Returns

Below is a sample response from the endpoint

If you wish to play around interactively with real values and run code, see...
Rate Limiting

Each subscription has its own rate limit. When you become a member, you start by choosing a rate limit that suits your usage needs. Do not worry; You can upgrade or downgrade your plan at any time. For this reason, instead of starting with a larger plan that you do not need, we can offer you to upgrade your plan after you start with "free" or "gold plan" options and start using the API.

You are currently subscribed to this API with a "". Your subscription has two types of restrictions: "daily" and "monthly" rate limits. These are:
Limit 	Allocated 	Used *
Daily 	3,000 	0
Monthly 	3,000 	0
* Updated every 15 minutes.

When you reach a rate limit (both daily and monthly), the service will stop responding and returning the HTTP 429 response status code (Too many requests) for each request with the following JSON string body text.

{
    "message":"You have exceeded your daily\/monthly API rate limit. Please review and upgrade your subscription plan at https:\/\/apilayer.com\/subscriptions to continue."
    }

A reminder email will be sent to you when your API usage reaches both 80% and 90%, so that you can take immediate actions such as upgrading your plan in order to prevent your application using the API from being interrupted.

You can also programmatically check your rate limit yourself. As a result of each request made to the APILayer, the following 4 fields provide you with all the necessary information within the HTTP Headers.

x-ratelimit-limit-month: Request limit per month
x-ratelimit-remaining-month: Request limit remaining this month
x-ratelimit-limit-day: Request limit per day
x-ratelimit-remaining-day: Request limit remaining today

You can contact our support unit if you need any assistance with your application regarding to handle the returned result by looking at the header information.
Error Codes

APILayer uses standard HTTP response codes to indicate the success or failure of an API request. In general: Codes in the 2xx range indicate success. Codes in the 4xx range indicate a clientside error, which means that failed given the information provided (e.g., a missing parameter, unauthorized access etc.). Codes in the 5xx range indicate an error with APILayer's servers (normally this should'nt happen at all).

If the response code is not 200, it means the operation failed somehow and you may need to take an action accordingly. You can check the response (which will be in JSON format) for a field called 'message' that briefly explains the error reported.

Status Code 	Explanation
400 - Bad Request 	The request was unacceptable, often due to missing a required parameter.
401 - Unauthorized 	No valid API key provided.
404 - Not Found 	The requested resource doesn't exist.
429 - Too many requests 	API request limit exceeded. See section Rate Limiting for more info.
5xx - Server Error 	We have failed to process your request. (You can contact us anytime)

You can always contact for support and ask for more assistance. We'll be glad to assist you with building your product.
Contents:

    Authentication
    Endpoints
    Rate Limiting
    Error Codes

Related Products
Spam Check API
Spam Check API
Marketing
Meta Tags API
Meta Tags API
Scraping
IP to Location API
IP to Location API
Geolocation
uNoGS API
uNoGS API
Scraping
Image to Text API
Image to Text API
Photos / Pictures
Review rating Review rating Review rating Review rating Review rating
In Memory DB API
In Memory DB API
Dev Tools
API Layer Logo
Explore Products

    General
    Marketplace
    About
    Documentation

    Support
    Contact Sales
    Helpdesk
    API Glossary

Connect
footer-instagram-icon
footer-facebook-icon
footer-linkedin-icon
footer-twitter-icon
footer-youtube-icon
footer-github-icon

Newsletter

Join our newsletter to receive the latest API insights, tips, and updates straight to your inbox.

© 2025 All rights reserved
Privacy Policy
Imprint
Terms
Cookie Preferences
